Inventory Management For Retailers

Team Members: 
     Kaviya.C (TL)
     Kalaiselvi.S (M1)
     Malathi.M (M2)
     Aishwarya.K (M3)
 
Paper 1: The relationship between capacity utilization and inventory invesment
Publication Year: 1957
Author: Abramovitz , Odiglian
They highlighted the relationship between capacity utilization and inventory investment. Existing 
stock of inventories was expected to adjust to the desired levels. Thus the variable, existing stock of 
inventories, was essential to be negatively related with the desired stock. The result was that there 
is positive relation among the ratio of inventory to sales and inventory investment. High ratio of 
stocks to sales in the past suggests requirement of high levels of inventories in the past and 
promising high investment in inventories in the current period also.

Paper 2: Study on manufacture inventories
Publication Year: (1970)
Author: Krishnamurty and Sastry 
t is the most comprehensive study on manufacturers’ inventories. They used the CMI data and the 
consolidated balance sheet data of public limited companies published by the RBI, in order to 
analyse each of the major components, like the raw materials, goods-in-process and finished goods, 
for 21 industries over the period ranging from 1946-62. The study was a time series one although 
there were some inter-industry cross-section analyses that were carried out in the analysis. The 
Accelerator represented by change in sales, bank finance and short-term interest rate was found to 
be an important determinant. The utilisation of productive capacity and price anticipations was also 
found to be relevant in the study.

Paper 3: 
Publication Year: (1972)
Author: George 
It was the study on cross section analysis of balance sheet data of 52 public limited companies for 
the period of 1967- 70. Accelerator, internal and external finance variables were considered in the 
formulation of equations for raw materials including goods-in-process inventories. However, 
equations for finished goods inventories conceive only output variable. Deliberation was given on 
accelerator and external finance variables